Welcome back.
I wanted to talk about one last piece of the puzzle especially when it comes to graphs although we've
talked about graph traversal up until now.
And also Treach reversal they use DFS and DFS.
There's also another thing that you should consider now in an interview you're most likely now going
to implement these algorithms because they're extremely complicated and they take a long time.
However an interviewer might expect you to know about them and know that you'd use Belman Ford or diasters
algorithm to figure out a shortest path problem.
But you might be asking yourself.
Well Andre you just told me that breadth first search is used for the shortest path problem.
Why do we need these.
X sure algorithms I already know how to do that.
And this is actually a special case.
You see breadth first search is great for the shortest path problem but there's one thing that a can
to it assumes that each jump to another node in a graph.
If we go back here it is assumed that each path has the same weight with a depth first search in a breath.
First search we don't really care what kind of weight an edge has.
For example in real life such as Google Maps some roads are faster than the others.
Right.
We have perhaps more traffic on one road maybe the distance from one note to another.
It's shorter than the other and these weighted graphs which we've talked about have a number associated
to their edges.
Remember a node is called a vertex in a graph and the connection between two nodes is an edge and depth
first search doesn't really allow us to take into account these weights.
We need something else.
And in an interview if somebody asked you this your answer should either be Belman Ford or diasters
algorithm that allow us to find the shortest path between two notes of a weighted graph now Belman and
dicer are two real people that are academics very very smart academics that came up with their own algorithm
to solve the shortest path problem of a way to digraph such as Google Maps trying to figure out what
the closest way for you to get your burrito for example.
And just a side note fun fact.
This is Richard Belman.
And it's the same person that wrote about dynamic programming which is an upcoming section in our course.
Let's just say that both of these people are very very smart.
Now both of these algorithms are quite complex and it takes a lot of time to really get it encoded.
So I will leave resources for you if you want to learn more about these algorithms because in an interview
it's very very rare that you'd ever have to code these algorithms.
Most of the time you just have to know that they exist and when to use them.
So let's go over that Belman Ford algorithm is very effective at solving the shortest path over diasters
algorithm because it can accommodate negative weights.
So if a weighted graph has negative weights or a negative number Belman Ford algorithm is going to be
able to solve the shortest path problem.
While Daxter won't be able to.
Now why would you ever use diasters then if Belman Ford algorithm can do better well we won't get into
the math of it all.
But Belman Ford algorithm can take a long time to run in terms of complexity and it's not the most efficient
algorithm.
The worst case for Belman forward algorithm is usually time complexity of all of and squit.
So it's not very efficient.
Diasters algorithm on the other hand is a little bit faster than that and a little bit more efficient
with the downside that it can accommodate for negative waits between nodes.
If an interviewer shows you this diagram and tells you I want to find the shortest path from 0 to 4
on this way to graph you now know why you should say right.
What algorithm are you going to use.
Are you going to use a breath.
First search Belman Ford algorithm or diasters algorithm.
The answer well it should be diasters algorithm.
There is no negative weights on this graph.
It's a weight a graph.
So dicer is algorithm is going to solve that problem.